A master builder is responsible for every aspect in the creation of a building, beginning
to end, including oversight of those performing the work.
Jehovah is mankind's master builder.
As Gilead students, soon graduates, you have the precious privilege of further supporting
the master builder by strengthening and stabilizing his building up Jehovah's people.
How can you do that successfully?
Well, turn to me, please, to the book of the Psalms, Psalm 127, 127 Psalm, we'll look
at verse 1, words of wise King Solomon, Psalm 127 and verse 1, unless Jehovah builds
the house, and in Hebrew, a house can also refer to family.
So unless Jehovah builds the house, it is in vain that its builders work hard on it,
unless Jehovah builds the house.
That's powerful.
Any endeavor, even well-intentioned that doesn't have Jehovah's blessing, will ultimately
be in vain.
So to build up Jehovah's family, we have to align our efforts with Jehovah's building
methods.
So how can we or how can you successfully do that?
Build up the branch family where you're assigned.
But I'd like to invite you to the book of Nehemiah.
We'll turn to Nehemiah chapter 1, and we'll see how he applied King Solomon's wise counsel
to remember the builder, and then what lessons we can learn from him.
We'll begin in chapter 1 and verse 3, where Hanani, Nehemiah's brother, is explaining
Jerusalem's sad situation.
Let's pick up their conversation.
Verse 3, they, or Hanani and those who traveled with him, replied, those remaining there
in the province who have survived the captivity are in a terrible situation, and in disgrace,
the walls of Jerusalem are broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire.
How did Nehemiah react when he heard that information?
Well, let's look at verse 4.
Nehemiah says, as soon as I heard these words, I sat down and began to weep and mourn
for days.
It's fasting and notice and praying before the God of the heavens.
This news had a profound impact on him.
He wept.
He mourned.
He fasted.
Why?
Because he loved Jehovah.
Jerusalem was a center of pure worship, and he loved his brothers and sisters.
But the question is, what should he do about it?
He probably wanted to jump in and fix things right away.
But did you notice how he remembered the builder?
His feelings were appropriate.
Everything was needed, but he didn't get ahead of things.
He took time to deal with his feelings, and it says he prayed repeatedly.
He focused on the builder.
And it's interesting.
Jehovah waited some four months or so to answer those prayers.
Kids left to Naisan, whereas the rebuilding itself only took about 52 days.
Now four months may not be a long period of time, but it's also not the next day.
In either case, Nehemiah waited for Jehovah's direction.
And when the direction came when the king granted all of the things he had prayed for, Nehemiah
could be confident that it was Jehovah doing the building.
Well you know how Nehemiah felt.
You've seen Jehovah answer prayers in your life.
Continue to rely on prayer.
Even more so now as you take on new assignments and counter new situations.
And yes, when you have strong feelings on a matter.
Remember the builder.
Get his direction.
Another thing to remember about getting Jehovah's direction is that it's not a passive
process.
It's an active process.
While Nehemiah waited, he didn't just sit around killing time.
He was active in his spiritual routine and assignment.
And he kept meditating on the situation, looking for solutions that Jehovah could bless,
and then including those in his prayers.
His spiritual routine helped him through the discouraging moments, and it also helped
him remain ready for when the answer did come.
We know this because in Nehemiah chapter 2, verses 4 through 8, when King Arthur Zerxes
granted his request, he asked Nehemiah, how long would your journey be?
When will you return?
Nehemiah already had a timetable in mind.
Nehemiah also asked for authorization letters for the governors, and for building materials
from the keeper of the royal park.
Nehemiah had been waiting actively, praying, meditating.
Well situations today will not always be resolved in a day.
But like Nehemiah, your spiritual routine will provide you with stability, and it will
help you be ready when the direction comes.
Another beautiful effect is that your example in the ministry and in the meetings and in your
assignments will also strengthen the friends, as they too face challenges, they'll be helped
to remember the builder.
Another way to remember the builder is to remember Jehovah's love for people.
Nehemiah even under difficult circumstances noticed people, turned to chapter 3.
We'll look at some of the highlights here in chapter 3.
Nehemiah is going around the city wall counterclockwise, but notice what he describes there
in chapter 3.
We'll look first in verse 1.
It says, the high priest and his brothers were building the sheep gate.
Look at verse 2.
The men of Jericho were building.
Let's go down to verse 5.
There we see the humble to coites working hard, but the prominent ones, not so much.
There's a lesson in that.
Don't be a prominent to coite.
We all want to work on the walls.
Go down to verse 12.
Here we notice Shalom, who's a prince, but who's working with him?
His hard-working daughters tells us remind us our sisters that do so much in today's efforts
to advance kingdom interests.
Turn to verse 20 here in the chapter, and it says, barrack worked with fervor.
Nehemiah noticed people, and Jehovah inspired him to write about them.
Why?
One reason is Jehovah wants us to remember why we're building.
He loves people.
We're building the walls wasn't the end goal, rather rebuilding the walls supported the
end goal.
That of glorifying Jehovah, fulfilling prophecy, and yes, protecting Jehovah's people.
Those actual walls were destroyed again later, but the account of Nehemiah lives on today,
and those who worked on the wall, they too hoped to live forever.
So get to know the people you're building with.
They're wonderful people.
Jehovah chooses amazing friends, and like Nehemiah, appreciate their qualities.
Think of your congregation and your department as a spiritual building, and the individual
brothers and sisters were all the stones.
The mortar that binds us together is the love and consideration we show each other.
For those of you brothers who may contribute to decision-making when you return to your
assignments, humbly consider the ideas of others, including brothers and sisters.
Brothers and sisters, under your oversight, additionally consider how a decision will
affect others.
To strengthen others, we need to know and love them, just like the builder does.
One final thought regarding our master builder, Jehovah is a happy God, imperfection in Satan's
system caused suffering.
That's true.
But remember that serving Jehovah brings joy despite those challenges.
And there is strength in that joy.
After completing the wall in Nehemiah, chapter 8, verse 10, Nehemiah reminded the people
that the joy of Jehovah was their stronghold, knowing that they had done Jehovah's will
and had Jehovah's approval gave them strength.
And that had an impact in them.
Notice that in Nehemiah chapter 12, Nehemiah chapter 12, verse 43.
This verse talks about the day of inauguration after all of the challenges had been overcome,
and notice how the people felt.
1243.
On that day, they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced for the true God made them rejoice,
with great joy.
The women and the children also rejoiced so that the rejoicing of Jerusalem could be heard
far away, even with brand new high walls they could be heard at a distance.
Sounds like the joyful noise before our meetings and assemblies are even here this morning
before your graduation program.
But did you notice?
It was Jehovah who made them rejoice, despite the challenges now and those to come, strengthen
others by remembering to enjoy Jehovah's service.
He's a happy God.
The psalmist said, unless Jehovah builds the house, well, Jehovah is building the house,
and you dear graduates, along with all of us, have the wonderful privilege of working
alongside him in this building work.
As you strengthen and stabilize Jehovah's people, humbly remember the builder.
Seek his direction and prayer.
Stay busy in your spiritual routine.
Love the brothers and sisters, and enjoy serving Jehovah.
Like Nehemiah, your guaranteed success, and Jehovah will remember you favorably when
you remember the builder.